JavaScript

JavaScript was usually used and executed on the client side, but now also on the server side by Node.js.

With JavaScript, we have the ability to change the HTML tree (the DOM, Document Object Model) in real time. Typically, after download a web page from the server, it is static. With JavaScript, we can allow the user to interact with the web page, or it can do things like auto-reload, add a new roll when a new message comes in, JavaScript adds dynamism to the web page.

It’s like having JavaScript run a loop waiting on whether the server has sent it new content, when there is new content, something new pops up.

JavaScript is, like Python, not strongly typed. It has data types, but you don’t want to specify them when declaring the variable.

Syntax

Colons

single quotation mark or double quotation marks are both ok. Although single is mostly used.

Boolean

“true” and “false” are in lower case.

if (x < y)
{
	…
}
else if (x > y)
{
	…
}
else
{
	…
}

Arrays

var numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];

Iterating over the keys in an object. 
Objects are like key-value pairs. By iterating over keys we can get the object to return the values.

for (var key in object)
{
	…
}

Declaring a variable

var i = 0;
(we need semicolons at the end)

Objects

var quote = {
	name: ‘Netflix, Inc. ’,
	price: 123.30,
	symbol: ’NFLX’
};

(similar to dictionary in Python)
(comma after every key-value pair, except for the last one)
(semicolon outside the curly braces) 



JSON (JavaScript Object Notation)

Store data with hierarchical format.
MUST quote strings with double quotes!

Events

These are some examples of events that can be triggered within the confines of a web page.:
click, mousedown, mouseup, mouseover, drag, keypress, load, unload, change, submit, focus, touchmove…

Event listeners

there can be event listener for the click event. code that listens for the click event.
drag is an event

Asynchronicity

Asynchronicity means, multiple things can happen at the same time.

User’s actions are unpredictable, it can click or drag something at any time. So instead of a top to bottom structure kind of code, we need a lot of conditions: “if this then that”.

To register functions: to associate “functions” with the “events”

Anonymous Functions

or Lambda functions. functions that have no name. sometimes are for functions we only need to call or refer to once

Callbacks

callbacks are functions configured to be called at a certain point in time when something happens.

AJAX

Asynchronous JavaScript And XML
